# How use security groups as firewalls

#20230319

## References: 

- [OpenAI](http://chat.openai.com)

---

1. Go to the [EC2 console](http://console.aws.amazon.com) and select your first
   web server instance.

2. Click on the `Security` tab to view the security group associated with your
   instance. You should see something like `sg-xxxxxxx (launch-wizard-1)`

    >  If you are creating a new security group, you can assign a different
       name by clicking the edit button before creating the instance.
       Note that once a security group is created like `launch-wizard-1` you
       can't edit its name.

3. If you want to copy an existing security group, go to the left-hand menu
   under `Network & Security` and click on `Security Groups`.

4. Select the security group you want to copy, and click on the `Actions`
   pull-down menu.

5. Click on `Copy to new security group` and give the new security group a name
   (`webserver`) and descriptron (`Allows public SSH and HTTP for webserver`)

6. Under the `Inbound Rules` section, specify the traffic that the security
   group should allow. For example, for `SSH`, the server will accept incoming
   traffic over port `22` from `Anywhere-IPv4`, in other words, from any ip
   address on the internet. Note that, it is not recommended to
   expose your SSH port publicly.


7. Use the `Source` field to specify the IP address range that should be
   allowed.

8. Use the `Port Range` field to specify the ports that should be allowed.

9. Click `Create` to create the new security group.

10. On the left-hand menu under instances, click on `Instances`, and then click
    on your first running EC2 instance. At the top in the actions pull down,
    under security, select the option that says `change security groups`. 
    In the search bar you can click inside it and click on the auto completed
    web server security group. Click add security group. 

    > Note that Instances can use multiple security groups. Add/remove them
    accordinly. For example, if you create a new group that doesn't allow 
    HTTP (Port 80), you should remove any other security group that allows http.

