# Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

#20230321

## References:

- [OpenAI](http://chat.openai.com)

---

- In general, it's a good practice to gave separate VPCs for different projects
  or environments (development, staging, production...) to ensure better
  security and isolation.

## How to Check Your VPCs on AWS

1. Log in to your AWS account and navigate to the AWS Management Console.

2. In the search bar, type `VPC` and select `VPC`.

3. Click on `Your VPCs` in the left-hand menu. Here you can see a list of all
   the VPCs that currently exist in your account.

4. You can view the details of a specific VPC by clicking on its name in the
   list.

5. To check the default VPC created by AWS, look for the column that says
   `Default VPC` in the VPC list. If there is a checkmark in that column, it
   means that VPC is the default VPC.

## How to Create a New VPC on AWS

1. Log in to your AWS account and navigate to the AWS Management Console.

2. In the search bar, type `VPC` and select `VPC`.

3. Click on `Your VPCs` in the left-hand menu.

4. Click on the `Create VPC` button.

5. Enter a name for your VPC in the `Name tag` field.

6. Enter a CIDR block for your VPC in the `IPv4 CIDR block` field. This is the
   range of IP addresses that will be used by resources in your VPC. For
   example, if you enter `10.0.0.0/16`, your VPC will have a range of 65,536 IP
   addresses.

7. You can leave the `IPv6 CIDR block` field blank unless you want to assign
   IPv6 addresses to resources in your VPC.

8. Click on the `Create VPC` button to create your new VPC.

9. Once the VPC is created, you can create subnets, route tables, and other
   resources to customize your VPC.
