# Setting Up Your AWS Environment

#20230313

## References:

- [OpenAI](http://chat.openai.com)
- [Amazon](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/)

---

## Create your AWS amazon account

1. [Getting started guide](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/guides/setup-environment/)

2. [Secure your account](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/guides/setup-environment/module-two/)

   - Make sure to create an AWS user within the account with administrator
     privileges.

   - Make sure to create `Access key` for the IAM user.

## How to create an EC2 instance

- EC2 = Elastic Compute Cloud

1.  Log in into your IAM:

    - [Clicke here: AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)

    - Use your IAM user not root.

2.  Within the AWS console, type in `EC2`, in the services search bar, and click
    on the entry that auto-completes.

3.  Click on the `Launch Instance` button.

4.  For name, choose whatever your want. Scroll down to the section
    `Application and OS Images (Amazon Machine Image)`.

    - AMI is a template that contains the software configuration.
    - AMI is a virtual machine with an operating system.
    - There are many AMI ready to go with entire serve applications
      such as wordPress and other applications (Be careful with additional
      prices).

5.  Click/select `Ubuntu Server 22.04 LTS HVM, SSD Volume Type or Amazon Linux`.
    Both should be free for the first year.

6.  Scroll down to the instance type and select `t2.micro`, which is also free
    for one year.

    - There are many `instance types` (t1, t2, t3, m1 m2 ...). Check [here](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/)
    - `T` and `M` families are the most commnly used ones.
    - If you have an application that has constantly high CPU load, choose
      a `compute optimezed or C class instance ` or one of the `genal instance`
      `M` class instances.
    - One might want to use `Accelerated Computing instances` for AI projects.
    - Use [AWS Pricing Calculator](https://calculator.aws/#/)

7.  Create a `Key Pair`.

    - When you launch a new linux instance within Amazon, you must use a `key pair`
      to set up `SSH` access to your server. This allows you to connect a terminal
      application to your server so that you can run commands against it.

    1. In the `EC2 Launch Wizard`, click on the `Create new key pair link`.
       It is close to the `Key pair (login)` session.

    2. For the `Key pair name`, type whatever you want. (ex: aws-test)

    3. Select `RSA` for `key pair type` and `.pem` for `private key file format`

    4. Click on `Create key pair`. a `.pem` file will be downloaded. Keep
       this file in a safe location.

8.  Configure `Network Settings`

    1. In the `EC2 Launch Wizard`, under `Network Settings`, make sure
       that `Create security group` is checked.

    2. Check `Allow SSH traffic from` + `Anywhere`

    3. Check `Allow HTTPS` traffic from the internet.

    4. Check `Allow HTTP` traffic from the internet.

    5. Leave the other options as their defaults.

9.  Click on Launch Instance and wait for few minutes.

## Set up a web server

1.  In the `EC2 console`, expand out the left-hand side. Then, under the
    `Instances` header, click on `instances`. The instance state is listed next
    to our new instance.

2.  Click the checkbox next to the new instance name and then click on the
    connect button. Now make sure to click on `EC2 Instance Connect` tab, then
    click on the connect button.

    - This will launch a new tab with an SSH terminal connecting us to our
      running instance. That's cool!

3.  Inside your SSH session, type the following:

    ```sh
    # For UBUNTU Server
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt upgrade

    # For Amazon Linux
    sudo yum update
    sudo yum upgrade
    ```

4.  Close the browser tab with your SSH connection and go back to the tab that
    has the EC2 console. Then click on Instance state at the top of the console.
    Click on the checkbox next to the instance name, and click on `Instance state`
    at the top of the console, and in the pull down select reboot instance.

5.  Reconnect to the `EC2 Instance` again.

6.  Install Apache Web server

    ```sh
    # Ubuntu
    sudo apt install apache2

    # Amazon
    sudo yum install httpd -y
    sudo systemctl start httpd
    ```

7.  Switch back to the previous browser tab that has the EC2 console. Click
    on the instances link and then click on your running instance. In the details
    pane that pops up, you can copy the `public ip version 4` address, and then
    paste it in a new browser tab.
