
# How to create a backup with an Amazon Machine Images (AMI) snapshot

#20230316

## References: 

- [OpenAI](http://chat.openai.com)
- [Amazon](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/)

---


1. Go to the AWS Management Console and navigate to the EC2 service.

2. Select the EC2 instance you want to create a backup of, and ensure that the
instance is stopped.

3. Right-click on the instance and select `Create Image` from the drop-down menu.

4. In the `Create Image` dialog box, give the image a descriptive name and
description.

5. Choose the desired storage location for the image (or just leave as default)

6. At the bottom, click on `Create image`. 

7. On the left-hand menu, under `Images`, click on `AMIs` and check/select the
the new AMI instance. Then click on `Launch instance from AMI`. Now you should
be back on the `EC2 launch instance screen` , but you are now launching a new 
server based on your server image.

8. For `name`, type something list `aws-test2`. For `instance type`, make 
sure to use the same as before (`t2.micro`). For the `key pair`, select the 
key pair that we already created before (if you are following since
the start = `aws-test`).


9. Under the `Network settings`, click on the edit button. Under the 
`subnet`, select an availability zone that is different from your other instance.
    
    - For example, the original EC2 instance was from `us-east-1b`. So you 
    could find something like `us-east-1a` for the backup image. this means
    that your backup will be in a different region. 

10. Under `Firewall`, select the option to `Select existing security group`.
Select a `security group` that your other instance is using (`launch-wizer-1`).

    - If you are not sure the name of the security group from before, you can
    go back to the AWS console -> EC2 -> Instance -> Select the origal instance
    -> Click on Security --> See the name under `Security groups`.

11. Now you can click on `Launch instance`  button on the bottom right.

