# Setting Up Elastic Block Store (EBS) 

#20230322

## References


- [OpenAI](http://chat.openai.com)


## Introduction

Welcome to this step-by-step guide on how to use and set up Elastic Block
Storage (EBS) from AWS. In this guide, we will walk you through the
process of creating an EBS volume and attaching it to an EC2 instance.

## Understanding EBS

EBS is a storage solution from AWS that provides attachable storage for
EC2 instances. With EBS, you can have flexible storage that you can attach
to different EC2 instances. EBS also comes with options for easy
encryption to keep your data safe and secure.


## Types of EBS Volumes

There are several types of EBS volumes, including `General Purpose SSDs`,
`High Performance SSDs`, `Cold Hard Drives`, and `Optimized Hard Drives`.
The General Purpose SSD is the most commonly used and offers the lowest cost
for SSDs. The High Performance SSD is suitable for larger workloads and
mission-critical workloads. The Optimized Hard Drives are used for
frequently accessed data or big data that needs to be filtered.
Finally, Cold Hard Drives are better for file servers or data you
don't need to access as frequently.

## Snapshots

One of the biggest benefits of EBS is snapshots. With snapshots, you can create
a point-in-time copy of your EBS volume, which can be used to restore your data
in case of data loss. Snapshots are stored in Amazon S3, which is a highly
durable and reliable storage service from AWS.

## Creating an EBS Volume

To create an EBS volume, follow these steps:

1. Log in to your [AWS Management Console](http://console.aws.amazon.com) and
   navigate to the EC2 dashboard.
2. In the left-hand menu, click on `Volumes.`, junst under `Elastic Block Store`
3. Click on the `Create Volume` button.
4. Select the type of volume you want to create and configure the settings according to your requirements.
5. Click on the `Create Volume` button to create the volume.

## Attaching an EBS Volume to an EC2 Instance

To attach an EBS volume to an EC2 instance, follow these steps:

1. Log in to your [AWS Management Console](http://console.aws.amazon.com)
   navigate to the EC2 dashboard.
2. In the left-hand menu, click on `Instances.`
3. Select the instance you want to attach the EBS volume to.
4. Click on the `Actions` button and select `Attach Volume.`
5. Select the EBS volume you want to attach and choose the device name to
   attach it to.
6. Click on the `Attach` button to attach the volume.


## Detaching an EBS Volume from an EC2 Instance

To detach an EBS volume from an EC2 instance, follow these steps:

1. Log in to your [AWS Management Console](http://console.aws.amazon.com) and
   navigate to the EC2 dashboard.
2. In the left-hand menu, click on `Volumes.`
3. Select the volume you want to detach.
4. Click on the `Actions` button and select `Detach Volume.`
5. Confirm that you want to detach the volume by clicking on the `Yes` button.

